we're in Ephesians chapter 2 verse 11 through 22 a little big chunk I love it we finished ourselves there in verse 10 last week and we'll talk about that as well but while you're turning there next Sunday prophecy update 1145 I know you're the first service folks so hey it will be on demand and you can watch it thereafter and you know
What I want to share with you is that I love looking at the prophecy 33% or more.
The Bible is prophetic.
It proves that the Bible is written outside of our time domain and the things that are lining up before us just should encourage us more of while you spoke these things before they ever even could dream to come to pass, who would ever thought
2000 years ago how ridiculous it sounded that you would have you could only buy and sell with a mark on your hand or your forehead and now we carried in our wallets and on our phones and these type of things and you know we look at those type of things but you know what I want to share with you is that all that's interesting to me but I believe what it does and should foremost is it should change the way I live should change the way we live and
like Jesus you're coming back what will you find me what state will I be and may you first John 3 3 speaks about be found in holiness and living you know and then Matthew 6 speaks of seeking first the kingdom of God I invested the time that I have and he's going to speak to us very pertinent and
things in our passage today that line into those things about being ambassadors and citizens that have ambassadors on or it's just fascinating and I love this passage and I probably shouldn't be talking I should be getting into it because that's a deep passage 11 through 22 and I'm looking forward to it but the point about the prophecy update and why we do it is so that we keep this stuff in the forefront of our
eyes and our mind when we read the newspaper and hear the news that we don't think that the world's out of control but it's coming into the exact way that God said it would and then what should it make us do?
It should bring us and give us the opportunity.
I need to pray about this thing.
I need to pray about that thing.
We'll be talking a little more about that as we talk about being ambassadors for Christ in our passage today and
We're spending, no one's putting it in the news, but it's known through various channels.
We're spending $1 billion a day sitting and parking out in the Mediterranean right now.
You know how much war machine you can build in these various defense contractors for a billion a day?
We're spending a billion a day.
We're having men and women leave home and be ready there and other carriers on its way from the Caribbean.
It's going to be there.
And I know there's a place where you show force, but then I think there's a place where we just go.
We live in an America with a president that does more than show force.
Midnight hammer, just
and four months ago prove that.
I don't think we're going to stage and not do something.
What's my point about that is we need to pray.
We need to pray for the United States of America.
We need to pray for our men and women in arms and those that are left behind, you know, holding the stuff as we see when David went to war.
people had to stay behind and guard the beans.
So there was food to come home to and family still intact.
And then we need to pray for the Iranian people there.
You know, Persia is, it's Bible land.
Middle East, Iraq, it's Bible land.
Israel, it's Bible land.
Jordan, Egypt.
These are Bible lands that we read about.
And I pray for the Persian
people and then of course we need to pray for the peace of Jerusalem Psalm 132 because it's always you know this is my opportunity you attack me I'm gonna attack Israel and so there's just so much there and I'm not a sensationalist you know that I'm not charismatic in any way that's obvious and I just take it hey this is what you put before us this is the time and season next week's our prophecy update let's take that opportunity and pray for
the peace of Jerusalem, pray for the peace in the Middle East and all those type of things.
So it's more than just here's interesting stuff.
It's like, Hey, now we're going to apply it.
And today we're going to get to apply some good stuff.
And, um, and it was just making me not part of my notes that I was taken, but I was just thinking about it this morning.
Um, today is the 46th day of the new year.
That means I read a Psalm a day, except when I get to 119, I break that into a handful of days because that's like 176 verses.
But it's one of my all-time favorite verses, Psalm 46, verse 10, says, be still and know that I am God.
And there's just so much there.
And I like that word be still.
You know, we always talk about God's Jehovah Rafa, the Lord God that heals.
When anybody comes and asks for healer, we go, he is Jehovah Rafa as we see in the Old Testament, a Lord God that heals.
This word still is a root that plays in all these words, Rafa.
And it's not the word for healing.
It's the word for weakness.
But you can see how then the root word plays and builds like our
English words do and all the languages do, but then it comes to a place of healing.
And so when you read that, it starts with be weakened.
You know, just lay down our self strength, trying to figure all this out, because he wants to speak to us.
Be still.
Just be weakened and accept, you know, I need you, Lord, to speak to me and be still and know.
And that means to acknowledge
Man, he's just making it so easy for help.
Just be weakened and acknowledge that I am God.
And I'm here for you.
I'm here to help you.
I'm here to strengthen you.
I'm here to heal your whatever the need is and those type of things.
And I love that, that be still and know that I am.
And that word, that means surety.
That surely in surety, I, and I love that word,
It means me singular.
Be still and know that I'm, it's God speaking personally.
We have a lot of verses that, you know, they're inspired in someone speaking and being inspired by God, but in Psalm 46 God speaking to us personally and going, Hey, be weakened, be acknowledged that I am me, that I am your God singular.
and I'm the only God, there is no other, and I'm here to speak to you, and I'm here to strengthen you, and lift you up, and he's gonna do that through the word that he gives us today, and we started with, we ended with verse 10 last week that says, that we are his workmanship, forgot to put this up here myself, and
Then we're going to come right in and verse 11 is going to say, therefore remember.
And he's going to give us five things.
that he says, continually remember.
Now I'm gonna have to do this at a high level, but I wanna teach Ephesians as best I can thematically and contextually, so you get the big picture, kinda what we did in Genesis, big picture, we could always break it down word by word and we'll do some word by word, but then you kinda miss the big picture that's being spoken of, and here's what the Lord is saying, therefore remember,
Now it goes back there for what?
Remember you're my workmanship.
Creating Christ Jesus for good work.
You're my poem.
You're my masterpiece.
But I want you to remember five things that he's going to speak to us.
And the verb tense here is a present imperative.
It means it was, it is, and it always will be.
Continually to remember this.
Remember the past?
Remember today, but tomorrow remember these things as well.
And continually remember these five things.
We were once without hope.
Boy, I'm sitting on that this morning, sitting on that yesterday.
And I mean, I read these things, try to read them starting as soon as this is over on a Sunday.
But it just really started to hit me yesterday, the depths of it, where you were once without hope.
Anybody remember what that was like?
Remember how hopeless it was?
Waking up, maybe you were raised in an environment that didn't come with that much trauma, if you would, or impact of the world.
But you remember those that you were pulled out of the world and you were just like, you'd wake up.
I can remember waking up in my 20s and looking into the mirror going, I could look right into the depths of my soul.
And I mean that.
I look in my eyes and supposedly green, but then all I saw was
darkness emptiness right into my soul I go what is this life I'm supposedly have it all I have nothing I'm empty yet the world says you have it all
He says, we were without hope.
Then he goes on in verse 13, he's going to say, and you were far off and we're going to explain these things.
But it's beautiful how he speaks these words to us.
We were once walled off.
There's a wall between us and who?
God.
And we were outside the building.
He's going to talk about the temple because what he's building on here is that he's making one body, Jew and Gentile, which blows that away, our minds away because most of us in here
are Gentile, non-Jewish, and how distant we were.
We were not in the first calling Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and we were not part of that.
And we were outside the building, the invitation into the temple.
But now are the dwelling place of God.
Location, location, location.
All of us who have bought homes, even where you rent,
Money's always a part of it, but let's be honest.
Before money comes, location, location, location.
This is where I want to live because it's close to my family, it's close to work, it's close to where I want to be, et cetera.
Then if the money part works, great.
Location, location, location, because we say what?
All of us.
This is where I want to live.
And here the Lord is.
But now we are the dwelling place of God will end in verse 22.
If you see that, just like us, he goes, this is where I want to live.
Location, location, location.
I want to live in you.
What a passage before us.
And we're going to read through it without commenting.
Then we'll come back and comment, which we won't be able to comment a lot.
But we were once without hope.
Therefore, remember that you were once Gentiles in the flesh who are called on circumcision by what is called circumcision made in the flesh by hands that
At that time you were without Christ being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
Verse 13, in our second point, we were far off, but now in Christ Jesus.
Praise the Lord for that word, but.
You who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Jesus.
At the third point, 14 through 18, is we were once walled off.
For he himself is our peace who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation.
We'll explain all these things and what they mean.
Having abolished in his flesh the enmity that is the law of the commandments contained in ordinance so as to create in himself one new man from the two,
Thus making peace, this is the Jew and Gentile becoming one body.
This letter that would circulate to churches would be like revolutionizing, groundbreaking.
Verse 16, and that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the inemity.
And he came and preached peace to you who are far off and those who were near.
For through him we both have access by one spirit to the Father.
The fourth point.
19 through 21 we were once outside the building.
Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God.
Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone in whom the whole building being fitted together growing into a holy temple in the Lord in our last point
becoming the dwelling place of God, verse 22, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the spirit.
Five points that we're gonna look at today.
Father, thank you.
And we're just gonna be still in the surety, the singularness that you are God.
You speak to your people.
You take the weak and you make them strong.
And we acknowledge there is none like you.
There is no other way except by the blood.
Thank you for the blood.
that brings us this near access that we can boldly come before the throne of grace and find help in our time of need, as you say in Hebrews 4.
But you say as well in verse 12 of Hebrews 4 that this word is living, it's powerful and it's sharper than a two-edged sword.
Would you do holy surgery and mighty work, prepare us for whatever it is before us, Lord?
And we praise you in your name, amen.
First one of these five things, point one, is we were once without hope, Ephesians 11 through 12, therefore remember that you once gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, made in the flesh by hands.
A little confusing, but simply the calling that was given to the
to the offsprings Abraham, Isaac, Jacob to be circumcised the Jewish religion.
Uncircumcision were the non-Jewish known as the Gentiles.
So it's really just two categories.
Through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Jewish, not through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Gentiles uncircumcised.
And verse 12 that
At the time you were without Christ being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and the strangers from the Covenant of promise Commonwealth of Israel obviously the land of Israel Abraham Isaac Jacob the Covenant is the promise that was given to the children of Israel through the Old Testament having no hope Without God in the world and there we were and what we talked about so for
just a high-level look at this because each of these were taken in a bigger context, but notice these four, five withouts.
We were without Christ.
We were without citizenship.
We were without covenant.
We were without hope because we were without God.
We were without Christ because we were outside the lineage.
We were
without citizenship because we were outside the commonwealth of Israel, the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob.
We were without covenants, the promises of God to the nation of Israel that didn't apply to the non-Jewish people and we were without hope and as I said, do you remember it?
Before we even, before we knew we needed a savior, the emptiness of that life, what is the purpose of life?
what happens after this life.
I think we don't give it enough that I know there's a lot of people that don't think about it anymore and so they're hardened to that but I think there's still enough people around that we can just have a simple conversation that even if we just bluntly or abruptly just say to someone, do you think there's an afterlife?
And see where life goes, see where that conversation goes with them because there's a lot of people who will say,
I think there's more to this.
I don't know what it is.
We'll talk about that before we finish today.
Some of the most people, well-known people in the world and what they think about that and without hope of God in the world.
So you got to imagine this as a Gentile getting this letter written around 60 AD.
The temple still standing.
Everybody's going to the temple
the Jewish people, the temple won't be destroyed till about 70 AD by the Roman legion that will come and not only just sack Jerusalem and now the Jews won't have the temple which then makes all this even more interesting because you know they'll need they'll need the book of Ephesians themselves because they don't have a temple to rest in anymore that I go down to the temple that's my identity that's my identity of a
of a nation, a sovereign nation.
And that's why when we do the prophecy update, we keep track because the book of Revelation speaks about the temple being rebuilt.
And if you go to Israel with us when we go, you can ask just about every Jew, how will you know your Messiah if you don't believe Jesus is?
The majority of them will say he will help us rebuild our temple.
What a setup for this man of peace who's gonna come.
Somehow broker peace in the Middle East that no one can do.
President Trump tries, he may, he's done some good things.
He won't broker the peace there, but someone's gonna come and you know what, I think no doubt their biggest sign of peace is he helped us rebuild our temple.
It doesn't mean that the third most holy site for Islam, the Dome of the Rock, has to be blown up.
They can just build it right next to it because it doesn't matter.
And what I mean by that is everybody gets wrapped up.
I've been wrapped up in it myself of the new temple has to be at the exact location of the old temple.
But the fact is it's an apostate temple.
You can't go, book of Hebrews is all about, you can't go back to the sacrificial system in a temple because Jesus Christ abolished that.
There's only one way to cover your sin that separates you from the holy God.
It's one time, one time only Jesus Christ, Him crucified, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world.
So that temple means nothing.
But it shall be rebuilt.
And so, hey, the Jewish people might be reading Ephesians going, yeah, whatever.
Well, 10 years after this, they'll go, hey, can I borrow a copy of that?
Epistle you guys were talking about because I'm really interested in it in it now, but at the time there was this great contention Jew and Gentile Read it all the way through there's still great contention now, especially if you start putting it in to Some of the Jewish people their greatest Gentile are that surrounding wall of ring of fire around them.
That's who they view
But during the time of this writing, and this is from the Talmud and various historical writings and research, it was for Jew, it was forbidden to give good advice to a Gentile, according to their Talmud, which is kind of commentary on the old scripture.
If a Jew married a Gentile, their family disowned them.
Still happens today in many families.
The Jewish mentality was that Gentiles were made to keep the fires of hell hot.
The Jew would burn their clothes if they touched a Gentile and then go through a ceremonial cleansing afterwards.
This is the separation that they had.
I was talking to a Jewish guy, this is a true story, but it's funny.
He added to it and he told me, and Ray, just so you know, we believe that Gentiles were made,
to pay full price, retail.
So you guys, you never try to barter or broker a deal, you always just pay.
It was funny the way he said it to me.
But here's, remember this?
When we read this, we can go, well, mm-hmm, but these are the Jewish people who, this is their view.
And so the Gentiles, this is how they received and perceived the,
The promises that came through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, how could we ever be one?
If you go back to 1 Samuel 17 and David spoke to the men that stood by him, the David and Goliath story, what shall be done to the man that kills this Philistine and takeeth away the reproach from Israel for who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?
Uncircumcision was a reflection of Goliath, which we know through the scriptures, the work of the flesh.
But this is the relationship.
This is what all the non-Jewish people would have been conditioned to.
And then to hear, hey, you know the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he died for you.
This would be, A, if you would, a tough sell, because they would sit there and go, I can't believe it.
No way.
Could he ever love me, ever die for me?
And now here this great book written by Paul to speak that, to say these things.
But you know, it does now make me think, 2000 years later, you know, the Jewish people, they thought they were the chosen and the only.
They didn't think it was open for anyone else access to God, and it was by default.
You were God's chosen person, and you would go to heaven because of where you lived and who your family was.
And now we look at the Jewish people and go, wow, how much they have missed the Messiah and even still today.
But you know what?
I want you to think about this.
Are we the United States of America, the new Israel, the new Jewish race, if you would, in that religious mentality?
I'm right with God because I'm American.
I have favor of God because God's favor is upon America.
And it comes to this who I
where I live and who my family is rather than my personal relationship with the Lord.
And that's what the Jewish people, many of them, it was a routine and a ritual form, but it was no longer a relationship.
And here if you walk around America, a lot of people think that that's our relationship.
And I hear it very much so by many of the world leaders of America that they've
believe that their favor with God is because they're American and serve the purpose of America, and therefore serve the purpose of God.
It's just a thought about that, and I think there's something we need to do about that, and we'll talk about that here in a minute.
But would you turn with me just for an exercise of consideration, the book of Malachi, last book of the Old Testament,
You could go to the first book of the New Testament if you'd like, Matthew chapter one, and then just flick back a page, and you'll be in the book of Malachi, a short book, last book of the 39 books of the Old Testament.
And this, if you're there, would you read with me chapter four, the last chapter in the order
of our scripture.
For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, and all the proud yet, all who do wickedly, will be stubble.
And the day which is coming shall burn them up, says the Lord of hosts.
That will leave them neither root nor branch.
But to you who fear my name, the son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his wings.
And you shall go out and grow fat like the stall-fed calves.
You shall trample the wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet.
On that day that I do this says the Lord of hosts.
Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded him in Orab for all of Israel with the statutes and judgment.
Behold, I will send you Elijah
the prophet behold the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord and he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the father last verse of the Old Testament least I come and strike the earth with a curse for consideration all of us are here today and I don't have we don't have
Matthew chapter one, verse one.
We don't have the 27 books of the New Testament.
All that we as Gentiles have is the last verse, at least I come and strike the earth with a curse.
How pitiful would our life be?
How much would we be?
We were once without hope.
And yet we get to come here, open Bible, and read word and go,
amazing therefore remember you once were and all these things that were to remember that all turn into these great promises because now we have this great hope and the next one verse 13 we were once far off but now in Christ Jesus you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ
far off, which means a distant journey.
And it really is kind of like a word story of, you were meandering in a desert of heat, if you would, of Sahara.
You were out in the Gaza desert or the negative desert in Israel.
And you were hiking and hiking and hiking.
And you were parched and you were dry and you had no water.
And every
The peak that you thought would be the end was just the peak to show you that there was more to go and how far away you were.
You were far off.
You were on this distant journey, but you have now been brought near the promise that's being made.
Remember how far away you were.
Remember.
Do you remember?
I hope it's flooding over you like it is me because I'm thinking back 27 years old.
I'm thinking back to what it was that
those years leading up just going, what is the purpose and hope of all this?
I got this great job.
I got the toys.
I got all this type of things and yet I would come home, look into the mirror and go empty, nothingness.
But you have been brought near and I love this word.
So dear to us, it literally means you're in the hand.
That's what brought near means in the hand.
And Isaiah 49, 16 is our Bible verse for our ministry of the Bibles that we print.
Can a woman, Isaiah 49, 15 and 16, can a woman forget her nursing child and not have compassion on the son of her womb?
Surely they may forget
And here's the Lord saying, yet I will never forget you.
See, I've inscribed you on the palms of my hand.
Your walls are continually before me.
I put you in the palm of my hand.
It becomes a wall.
Remember, we're going to move into a passage here that says, we were walled off.
Now the Lord in the word place switches and says, now that you're in my hand and it only comes by the blood of the Lamb, Jesus Christ, I wall you in.
And I've inscribed your name on the palm of my hand.
And that's why we call our engraving ministry that passage.
And that's why when we engrave a Bible, we put this little seal in there that's Isaiah 49, 16, so that we always remember.
And then when you give this Bible, it's a great ministry.
And we believe it so much, we by faith believe God will continually provide.
We don't ask for anything regarding
anything to do with that ministry.
You want to print Bibles for people that you love and know.
Maybe you're going to the doctors for on a regular basis.
Get to find the secretary's name, administrator, the dentist's name, the doctor's name and then you know you go and you're going to be there in a couple weeks and crave a Bible for them.
Go here.
This is my greatest gift.
I give it to you.
You don't say anything more, but you just gave them the word that became flesh and dwells among us.
And what a beautiful promise that we have here.
And here he is saying to us, you are far away.
You were walled off and you had brought near and brought into this place.
And then our third section here, we were once walled off and perfect.
play on words as we just left Isaiah 49.
Let's read the context again.
For he himself is our peace, who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the inimity, that's war, that is the law commandments contained in the ordinance.
They were written against us to judge us that God needed to go to war against us for breaking his holy law.
So as to create in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace.
And that he might reconcile them both the God and one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the inemity.
And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and to those who were near.
For through him we both have access by one spirit.
to the Father.
Again, just the beautiful word that's being spoken of here.
Being brought in, we're distanced and all of it's going to be through the Lord.
But speaking of being walled in, how did that turn out for me?
It's OK.
So this is the time of the writing.
This is the Temple Mount, known at that time for King Herod.
These were storage houses here, but this was what's known as Antonio Fortress, and that's where the Romans would oversee, so you never had your pure.
But this is the actual temple.
And then the rest of this is called the Temple Mount.
And then the actual temple
You would enter in, this was the court of the women, then enter into the next wall, and that was the court of the men, women, you've come a long way through Jesus Christ, amen.
And then that was the temple, and that was split into the holy place and the holy holies.
We'll talk about that in just a minute.
But this was the outside court known as the court of the Gentiles.
So the Gentiles could come, but they couldn't get into the temple itself anywhere near.
but they could come to the temple and there was a distancing.
Check this out through historical find.
This sign was here on this wall before you would walk in.
And this archaeological find, no foreigner may enter within the barricade which surrounds the sanctuary and enclosure.
Anyone who is caught doing so will have himself the blame for his ensuing death.
That was the word written to all Gentiles.
This is as far as you come.
You can't come any closer.
And now here the Lord speaks these beautiful words that he, verse 14,
for he himself is our peace who has made one with us and has broken down the middle wall of separation.
And it goes even further than that of this separation.
And we'll talk more about that and change color scheme.
Someone remind me.
Purple's not the best.
Looks good on my screen at home.
Doesn't look good here.
But we were once walled off
And it goes, and what it's speaking of is it's going to speak of the temple temple inside the temple that I showed you.
You would come in and only the priests could go in.
to this temple which is the holy place and they would make sacrifice and we've studied these type of things but there was this veil here that separated from the holy holies and only the high priest once a year would go in there and make sacrifice on behalf of the nation and when Jesus died we're told Matthew as we read through those things and about the ninth hour
Jesus cried out with a loud voice saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabbakmi, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
And then the Lord is speaking of there's this walling off and the reason that Jesus himself would be forsaken as we read is, Habakkuk 113, you are of purer eyes than to behold evil and cannot look upon wickedness.
Isaiah 59, one through two, behold the Lord's hand is not short.
that he cannot save, nor is he heavy, that he cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated you from your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he will not look.
We're walled off because God is too pure to look upon our sin.
And he's saying, remember that, remember that.
Remember Isaiah 53 verse four through eight.
Surely he has borne our grief and carried our sorrow, yet we were esteemed, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was
wounded for our transgression.
He was bruised for our iniquities.
The chastisement for our peace was upon him and by his stripes we are healed and we like sheep have gone astray.
We have turned everyone to his own way and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
The beautiful word that's being spoken of here is that God comes this walled off that I broke down this wall through my sacrifice for you.
And I know we can say, I know that.
But God says, come, remember it.
Enjoy it again.
I think I shared.
Oh, I know I shared this.
But I think it was Christmas Eve.
Maybe you weren't here.
And so it's worth a replay.
It's a story that's told of World War I in the theater there in the European grounds that one of the Allied soldiers
was killed in battle.
And two of his fellow soldiers, countrymen, wanted to give him a proper Christian burial.
And where the battle was, there was a small church, and they approached the church, and they approached the priest of that church and says, this is our countrymen who has died in battle.
We would like to give them
Christian burial right here inside, you know, right here at your church.
And the priest said, is he of this denomination?
And the people said, the soldier said, no, he wasn't.
But he is our Christian brother.
And the priest said, I'm sorry.
I can't bury him inside the fence of this church grounds because he's not of that denomination.
But you can bury him outside
outside the fence and give them that burial that you so desire.
And so they did what they did, buried him right there, had that service for him, remember their fallen Christian brother in battle.
Then they went back.
They went back for the evening.
Tomorrow they were marching out and the two men said, let's swing by the
the church one more time.
Let's go remember our brother in arms one more time, our countrymen and our Christian brother and let's just have one more moment with him.
And they come upon the church and as they come they go, where's his grave?
It was right outside the fence and now we don't see it.
And then just then the priest comes out and he says, your friend's still here.
There's his grave.
right there.
Right after you guys left, I came back in and I couldn't rest and I couldn't sleep because this isn't about a denomination.
This is about brothers in Christ.
So I came out and I moved the fence.
And I put him inside the fence by moving the fence, you know, and that's what the Lord has done for us.
I moved the fence so that I might bring you in and I brought you in to bring you this piece.
through Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone.
And it's a beautiful story for the passage that we're in.
And verse 17 and 18, yeah, we're doing good here.
And he came and preached peace to you who are far off and those who were near.
For through him we both have access
by one spirit to the Father.
I'm reminded, speaking of peace, we were without hope.
Now we have hope and peace, but I'm reminded of an interview with Harrison Ford, and at the time, the greatest, most successful actor
in the history of Hollywood, if you consider all those blockbuster movies and all the mega-millions that he made then.
I mean, every blockbuster that came out was like Harrison Ford was in it.
And they interviewed him and they said to him, Harrison, you're the most successful actor in Hollywood, blockbuster after blockbuster, you appear to have everything in the world, what is
The one thing, if anything, that you don't have.
You know what Harrison Ford said?
Peace.
Isn't that amazing?
Everything that he had you would think would give a person peace and security and yet he knew there was something more inside him.
Same type of interview happened.
I think it was 60 minutes with Tom Brady.
And I don't even think he had hit Super Bowl ring seven.
But they interviewed him.
And he wasn't called the goat yet.
It was on his way to becoming the greatest of all time.
And there he was with his looks, all that hair.
and all this supermodel relationships, everything that the world would think, wow.
And in the interview, here's what he said in this interview.
Why do I have these Super Bowl rings and still think that there's something greater out there for me?
Maybe a lot of people would say, hey man, that is what it is.
I reached my goal, my dream, my life.
Me?
I think God has got to be more than this.
I mean, this isn't what it all is.
This isn't what it's all cracked up to be.
Wow.
So the interviewer said, well, what's the answer?
And Brady respond, I wish I knew.
I love playing football.
I love being a quarterback for this team.
But at the same time, I think there's a lot of parts about me that I'm still
trying to find.
And the answer would be, Tom, the answer is Jesus Christ.
And that's the answer for anyone and everyone here today.
If you don't have peace, Jesus Christ has given and provided peace through his sacrifice to demonstrate his love for you and how much he loves you.
And you know, the beautiful thing that verse 18 says
For through him, we both have access by one spirit to the Father.
We know how the access comes, right?
We've studied that to this point.
We know the gospel of Jesus Christ.
But you know this word here in the Greek, it's prosago, gay.
It's where we get our word protocol.
Isn't this amazing?
It says that through him we have access protocol by one spirit
We have access to the Father.
And I love the word protocol because when a person would come into a room, and I love the picture that you see in the great British monarchy and those type of things, the protocol is you just can't stroll in and come into someone's present.
But even more so when a dignitary came in to a room, the whole room would stop.
And the protocol was, here comes someone special.
Here comes a dignitary into this room.
And you know, the whole British garb and the, you know, and their attire, the guards and those type of things.
And you probably remember and seen it in some form or fashion.
And they have that staff.
And what does the protocol do?
Pop, pop, pop.
It hits the ground.
two or three times, pop, pop, pop.
It sends a message through the whole room.
Here comes a dignitary.
And it would send a message, everyone, all rise or everyone prepare yourself.
Here comes the dignitary before you.
And I just love this.
Either way, you want to look at it of, we have an audience with God the Father.
And there's this pop, pop, pop man.
You're coming into my presence.
But it's through him we have access by one spirit to the Father.
So if you read this, it's us going into the presence of the Father.
Pop, pop, pop.
And the Lord is just saying, oh, here comes someone special.
Here comes something of great dignitary to me.
Of course we are, because we've been made that.
But I want to tell you, if you will consider that and you will rest in that,
It will change your prayer life.
The God in heaven goes, he's there waiting for us.
And then the protocol is made, here comes Ray.
And the Lord's like, here comes Ray.
He's coming in, man, I've been waiting for this.
This blesses me, this moves me, and I can just boldly come to the throne of grace and find help in the time of need.
If any of us had any access to the White House, and maybe some of you do, or whatever those things, we still can't just roll in to the White House.
There's a protocol before we would ever get to see the President.
We have to wait.
Vetted through security and then we can wait for a moment the president will see you and here's the picture that just totally flips You know there's a couple people down there that have no protocol if you would They walk into that office anytime they want Her name is Melania His name is Baron then the other daughters that there are they can come just simply because of
They're the bride of the president, or they're the son or the daughter of the president.
And they don't have to go through the secret service or the protocol or any of those type of things.
They can simply come into the presence of the president.
And we have a greater calling for ourselves because of who we are, sons and daughters of the Lord.
Well, just reading through to, it's a build up and a reminder and hits us into our last
point here's our fourth point we were once outside the building verse 19 through 21 now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners but fellow citizens with the saints and the members of the household of God having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone power of this verse is it
puts us in the Old Testament is as sure a word for us through the prophets as the New Testament through the apostles.
And then Jesus Christ building the cornerstone of this new building.
And we'll talk about that in whom the whole building being fitted together grows into a holy temple in the Lord.
And then verse 22 comes to this place, location, location, location.
But now we are the dwelling place of God.
verse 22, in whom you also being built together for the dwelling place of the God in the spirit.
The veil has been torn, and that's the point that I make about that, that the Lord dwelled in the holy of holies.
But when Jesus was
crucified, Matthew 27 verse 50, and Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.
Then behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom and the earth quaked and the rocks were split.
I love it because it was top to bottom, God reaching down and splitting the veil that separated from man going into the holy holies, which in the Old Testament was the dwelling place of God.
And now we're being told here in Ephesians and 1 Corinthians
3, and let's just soak on it, for do you not know, Christian, that you are the temple of God, and that God's spirit dwells in you?
1 Corinthians 6, 19, and 20, or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own?
for you are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body, in your spirit, which are the, which are God's.
Location, location, location.
Everybody who has found their place to dwell, we all went through the place.
This is where I want to live.
And here the Lord speaks to us as we close with this word.
This is where I want to live, not in a building made in hands.
I want to live in a body that's been bought with the blood of Jesus Christ, that I might live in you and dwell in you.
And that's the intimacy that I want to have with you.
Lord, your word is amazing.
You bring us to a place of remembrance.
And Lord, we come and we reflect and remember back that we were once without hope.
It's easy to forget that as we've been saved and walked with you for some time.
It's good to go back to what it was like, the hopelessness, and the reminder of how far off we were from you.
It was like a Sahara desert.
It was an empty and parched ground, but we had been brought near through the blood of the lamb, the very hands that brought us in.
the very hands that went to a cross to be pierced for us.
We were walled off.
We couldn't get into the temple.
The sign clearly saying, if you tread this beyond this point, death would ensue.
And then we were once outside the building.
But now, Lord, not only were we outside the holy of holies, you've now made us the holy of holies.
location, location, location, the God of the universe who by protocol access says come boldly before the throne of grace and Lord the amazing thing is we don't go far because here you are saying this is where I want to live inside of my people my spirit rests upon you this is amazing grace Lord and we remember today and thank you for this word
And Lord, we simply sit here, be still.
Know that you're God.
We love you.
We praise you.
And your word to us is, I love you.
I adore you.
Location, location, location.
In your name, amen.